In the last two lectures we saw how we can create our own absorbable and we created one which would
run infinitely.
We have the interval here and one which is completed now.
What actually happens if we have the first case is infinitely running absorbable I will comment it in
again and then we kind of navigate away from this component.
But we do have a subscription which is active Well let's see what happens if I reload this.
You'll see it starts counting here and we get the packages from the Arabs Horrible's and now switch
to page and it still accounts.
Even though I switched to page even though the home component got destroyed in the background.
This can be a severe problem because of your observable still has an active subscription.
And the observable is not an observable which is completed automatically as disapproval isn't.
Well then you're creating a memory leak because you still have a subscription which you probably are
not interested in anymore and you still receive the data and handle that data.
And now imagine this case for a couple of observables or one hundred of thousands of observables.
Therefore you should always make sure that you unsubscribe if you kind of leave the area where you handled
is observable.
So in the example here with our component we should actually implement the on the stroy lifecycle hook
and imported from an angular cohort and in Engy on the stroy here we should make sure that we unsubscribe.
I will actually store my subscriptions and not and Constans but in properties of this class.
So my numbers observables subscription should be stored in one property and this will be of Taieb subscription
which I need to import from our exchange slash subscription.
So always the main object on the main package path.
And then the same for my custom observable with these two properties created I can now save my subscriptions
year so year my custom absorbable subscription is equal to the subscription or my custom we created
absorbable and here on the numbers it's the same I will store it in my numbers observables subscription
property with the subscription store.
I can go to DNG on the stroy hook and here I simply want to clear down by calling unsubscribe.
And that's a cool thing about this observable third party package.
It gives us as and subscribe method on our subscriptions so that we can cancel them so that we can make
sure that we clean up our observable subscriptions.
With this in place if we go back to home you can see that the counter starts but if I navigate away
it stops and we also never received the second package or completed call so successfully unsubscribe
and cleaned up the space in memory.
So you definitely should do this on your own observables.
And probably is a good practice on all observables though I can tell you that the observables built
into angler clean themselves up automatically but still it is a good practice to clean that up on your
own.
You get into the habit and you make sure that you don't forget it on observables where no automatic
cleanup is provided.